docs/add_provider.rst, before:

.. _add_provider:

Add a Provider
==============

``eodag`` provides a set of `plugins <plugins.rst>`_ which don't know anything about the
providers themselves, they just implement generic methods required to talk to different kinds of data catalog. For instance:

* :class:`~eodag.plugins.search.qssearch.QueryStringSearch`: Search plugin that implements a search protocol that relies on `query strings <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string>`_
* :class:`~eodag.plugins.authentication.header.HTTPHeaderAuth`: Authentication plugin that implements `HTTP authentication using headers <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication>`_
* :class:`~eodag.plugins.download.http.HTTPDownload`: Download plugin that implements download over `HTTP protocol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol>`_

Configure a new provider
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The simplest way to add a new provider is to **configure existing plugins**. This approach requires to
provide the new provider's configuration in a ``YAML`` format. The following example, extracted from
the `STAC client page <notebooks/tutos/tuto_stac_client.ipynb#stac-api>`_, shows how to add a new STAC provider:

.. code-block::

   tamn:
      search:
         type: StacSearch
         api_endpoint: https://tamn.snapplanet.io/search
      products:
         S2_MSI_L1C:
               productType: S2
         GENERIC_PRODUCT_TYPE:
               productType: '{productType}'
      download:
         type: AwsDownload
         base_uri: https://tamn.snapplanet.io
         flatten_top_dirs: True
      auth:
         type: AwsAuth
         credentials:
               aws_access_key_id: PLEASE_CHANGE_ME
               aws_secret_access_key: PLEASE_CHANGE_ME

It configures the following existing plugins: :class:`~eodag.plugins.search.qssearch.StacSearch` (search),
:class:`~eodag.plugins.authentication.aws_auth.AwsAuth` (authentication) and :class:`~eodag.plugins.download.aws.AwsDownload` (download).

Of course, it is also necessary to know how to configure these plugins (which parameters they take, what values they can have, etc.).
You can get some inspiration from the *Providers pre-configuration* section by analysing how ``eodag`` configures the providers it comes installed with.

Add more plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``eodag`` is a plugin-oriented framework which means it can be easily extended. If the plugins it offers are not sufficient for your
own needs (i.e. getting data from a provider not supported by ``eodag``), you should then write your own plugins (possibly by extending one of provided by ``eodag``)
and configure them. What you are the most likely to be willing to do is either to develop a new `Search <plugins_reference/search.rst>`_ plugin or an
`Api <plugins_reference/api.rst>`_ plugin (e.g. to create an interface with another program).

`eodag-sentinelsat <https://github.com/CS-SI/eodag-sentinelsat>`_ is a good example of an Api plugin. It creates an interface with the
`sentinalsat <https://github.com/sentinelsat/sentinelsat>`_ library to search and download products from `SciHub <https://scihub.copernicus.eu/>`_.

See more details about how to create a new plugin in :ref:`this dedicated section <creating_plugins>`.

Providers pre-configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All the providers are pre-configured in ``eodag`` in a YAML file.
Click on the link below to display its full content.

.. raw:: html

   <details>
   <summary><a>providers.yml</a></summary>

.. include:: ../eodag/resources/providers.yml
   :start-line: 17
   :code: yaml

.. raw:: html

   </details>

Parameters mapping
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

EODAG maps each provider's specific metadata parameters to a common model using
`OGC OpenSearch Extension for Earth Observation <http://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/13-026r9/13-026r9.html>`_.

The list of parameters mapped for the available providers can be found in this
`CSV file <_static/params_mapping.csv>`_.

Commit message:

docs: user friendly parameters mapping documentation

docs/add_provider.rst, after:

.. _add_provider:

Add a Provider
==============

``eodag`` provides a set of `plugins <plugins.rst>`_ which don't know anything about the
providers themselves, they just implement generic methods required to talk to different kinds of data catalog. For instance:

* :class:`~eodag.plugins.search.qssearch.QueryStringSearch`: Search plugin that implements a search protocol that relies on `query strings <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string>`_
* :class:`~eodag.plugins.authentication.header.HTTPHeaderAuth`: Authentication plugin that implements `HTTP authentication using headers <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication>`_
* :class:`~eodag.plugins.download.http.HTTPDownload`: Download plugin that implements download over `HTTP protocol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol>`_

Configure a new provider
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The simplest way to add a new provider is to **configure existing plugins**. This approach requires to
provide the new provider's configuration in a ``YAML`` format. The following example, extracted from
the `STAC client page <notebooks/tutos/tuto_stac_client.ipynb#stac-api>`_, shows how to add a new STAC provider:

.. code-block::

   tamn:
      search:
         type: StacSearch
         api_endpoint: https://tamn.snapplanet.io/search
      products:
         S2_MSI_L1C:
               productType: S2
         GENERIC_PRODUCT_TYPE:
               productType: '{productType}'
      download:
         type: AwsDownload
         base_uri: https://tamn.snapplanet.io
         flatten_top_dirs: True
      auth:
         type: AwsAuth
         credentials:
               aws_access_key_id: PLEASE_CHANGE_ME
               aws_secret_access_key: PLEASE_CHANGE_ME

It configures the following existing plugins: :class:`~eodag.plugins.search.qssearch.StacSearch` (search),
:class:`~eodag.plugins.authentication.aws_auth.AwsAuth` (authentication) and :class:`~eodag.plugins.download.aws.AwsDownload` (download).

Of course, it is also necessary to know how to configure these plugins (which parameters they take, what values they can have, etc.).
You can get some inspiration from the *Providers pre-configuration* section by analysing how ``eodag`` configures the providers it comes installed with.

Add more plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``eodag`` is a plugin-oriented framework which means it can be easily extended. If the plugins it offers are not sufficient for your
own needs (i.e. getting data from a provider not supported by ``eodag``), you should then write your own plugins (possibly by extending one of provided by ``eodag``)
and configure them. What you are the most likely to be willing to do is either to develop a new `Search <plugins_reference/search.rst>`_ plugin or an
`Api <plugins_reference/api.rst>`_ plugin (e.g. to create an interface with another program).

`eodag-sentinelsat <https://github.com/CS-SI/eodag-sentinelsat>`_ is a good example of an Api plugin. It creates an interface with the
`sentinalsat <https://github.com/sentinelsat/sentinelsat>`_ library to search and download products from `SciHub <https://scihub.copernicus.eu/>`_.

See more details about how to create a new plugin in :ref:`this dedicated section <creating_plugins>`.

Providers pre-configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All the providers are pre-configured in ``eodag`` in a YAML file.
Click on the link below to display its full content.

.. raw:: html

   <details>
   <summary><a>providers.yml</a></summary>

.. include:: ../eodag/resources/providers.yml
   :start-line: 17
   :code: yaml

.. raw:: html

   </details>

Parameters mapping
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

EODAG maps each provider's specific metadata parameters to a common model using
`OGC OpenSearch Extension for Earth Observation <http://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/13-026r9/13-026r9.html>`_.
Extra parameters having no equivalent in this model are mapped as is.

Depending on the provider, some parameters are queryable or not. The following
tables list the parameters supported by providers, and if they are queryable or not.

OpenSearch parameters (`CSV <_static/params_mapping_opensearch.csv>`__)
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. role:: green
.. csv-table::
   :file: _static/params_mapping_opensearch.csv
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1
   :class: params

Provider/eodag specific parameters (`CSV <_static/params_mapping_extra.csv>`__)
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. role:: green
.. csv-table::
   :file: _static/params_mapping_extra.csv
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1
   :class: params
