eodag/rest/description.md, before:

# eodag-server

eodag-server is a REST API for EODAG search tool implementing OpenSearch Geo interface.


## Searching

The server provides a GET endpoint with a route defined by:

```
http://hostname/<product_type>/?param=value
```

See below to get the list of available product types.

Supported request parameter is

* box: the search bounding box defined by: min_lon,min_lat,max_lon,max_lat.
* dtstart: the start date
* dtend: the end date
* cloudCover: cloud cover

Example URL:

<{base_url}S2_MSI_L1C/?box=0,43,1,44>

## Filtering

The service provides ability to filter search results by implemented EODAG crunchers.
To activate a filter, add the 'filter' request parameter.

Available filters and their matching EODAG cruncher are:

* latestIntersect -> FilterLatestIntersect
* latestByName -> FilterLatestByName
* overlap -> FilterOverlap

Some filters may require additional configuration parameters
which can be set as request parameters.
For example, overlap filter requires adding a 'minimum_overlap' parameter to the request.

Example URL:

<{base_url}S2_MSI_L1C/?box=0,43,1,44&filter=overlap&minimum_overlap=0>

## Product types

Supported product types are:

{product_types}

Commit message:

creates and endpoint for listing product types in the REST server

eodag/rest/description.md, after:

# eodag-server

eodag-server is a REST API for EODAG search tool implementing OpenSearch Geo interface.


## Searching

The server provides a GET endpoint with a route defined by:

```
http://hostname/<product_type>/?param=value
```

See below to get the list of available product types.

Supported request parameter is

* box: the search bounding box defined by: min_lon,min_lat,max_lon,max_lat.
* dtstart: the start date
* dtend: the end date
* cloudCover: cloud cover

Example URL:

<{base_url}S2_MSI_L1C/?box=0,43,1,44>

## Filtering

The service provides ability to filter search results by implemented EODAG crunchers.
To activate a filter, add the 'filter' request parameter.

Available filters and their matching EODAG cruncher are:

* latestIntersect -> FilterLatestIntersect
* latestByName -> FilterLatestByName
* overlap -> FilterOverlap

Some filters may require additional configuration parameters
which can be set as request parameters.
For example, overlap filter requires adding a 'minimum_overlap' parameter to the request.

Example URL:

<{base_url}S2_MSI_L1C/?box=0,43,1,44&filter=overlap&minimum_overlap=0>

## Product types

There is an endpoint for listing supported product types:

{base_url}product-types/ for all providers supported product types or {base_url}product-types/$provider for product
types supported only by $provider. The result is a json with product type ID and metadata.

Supported product types are:

{product_types}
